How many nights did you close your eyes
feeling disconnected from yourself? How
often did you swallow tears, ignore your
intuition, or push through exhaustion
because being productive is feeling more
safe than being yourself. Being in your
masculine energy for too long, even
though it helped you survive, also is
costing you your depth, your flow, and
your very feminine presence. Hi guys and
welcome back to my channel. My name is
Mika and today we are talking about why
your feminine energy is blocked and how
you can unblock it. I want to give you a
quick overview of what you can expect in
this video. The first part will be about
the symptoms. I will go into visible
symptoms in your body, in your face, in
your mind and in your soul. The second
part of the video will be the main
reason why you have lost your
connection. And then I will go into how
you have learned to shut down your
feelings and also talk a bit about trust
issues, overexplaining and control and
also having struggles to receive. And at
the end of the video, I will talk about
how you can unblock your feminine
energy. And I will give you a little
road map of what you can do. Let's get
into this. Sometimes we don't even
notice that our feminine energy is
blocked. We don't even see the signs,
but there will be always symptoms and
signs in your body. And these can be
visible that you actually can see.
Physical tells are always loud, but you
have to listen. And the first one that
always shows up for me every time my
feminine energy is blocked. By the way,
this can be by others, by our
circumstances or by ourselves, then it
shows up for me in my neck. I always
immediately feel tension in my neck. And
when we are not listening to that and we
keep doing, we keep staying in that same
circumstances, we keep staying with that
same people, we keep overdoing, we keep
overwork, we keep overgiving, we keep
overextending ourselves, it will
manifest in our neck. The physical tails
are not going to disappear. They will
build up. The thing is when we are not
listening to it and it's building up at
some point you might not feel any more
pain but right now I want you to touch
on your neck just touch and feel with
your hands right and left is it soft or
is it tense when you touch on your neck
and maybe even your shoulders and it's
tense and you don't even feel the pain
anymore. This is a buildup of tension
that literally manifests in your body.
It will look like you would have a very
short neck or minimum a shorter neck as
it should be. And as you can see now my
posture, my neck is very relaxed. But
there was a time in my life where it
wasn't like that. And my neck would
literally go up like this. If you go
check my Instagram and you scroll down
to some videos from one, two, three
years ago, you will see that my neck was
literally up here. I didn't feel any
pain. This is the buildup of tension and
living too long and too much in your
masculine energy. Another visible sign
that will show in your face is when you
have a very pronounced jaw and you
haven't done any filler here. You can
tell that this is tension from always
clinching your jaws. When you're
sleeping, for example, you would always
bite your teeth or even grind your
teeth. And when you have a look here,
I'm biting my teeth. You might can see
that's the masset, the muscle here
moving. And the more tension we have in
our bodies, the more tension we have in
our lives, it's going to show. You might
are not even aware of or sure if that's
something normal or it's too pronounced
if this is part of your face shape. But
you can simply try to be more aware in
situations of stress. What do you do?
Are you clenching your teeth? Are you
grinding your teeth? When you're
stressed or super focused, usually even
me when I'm working a lot, I'm clenching
my teeth. And only when I'm consciously
choosing to direct my attention to what
I'm doing with my teeth and my mouth, I
notice, oh, I'm clenching my teeth. So
every time you feel stressed, you feel
overwhelmed. I want you to observe what
is happening in your face. What are you
doing unconsciously? Some people are
also creating fists. You're creating
tension in your arms, in your fingers.
You're getting stiff. I want you to
notice all those signs and then try to
consciously release the tension. Take a
deep brever. Relax your fingers. Relax
your jaw. Relax your neck. Whenever you
notice you feel tense in your neck, in
your shoulders, I want you to roll back
your shoulders a few times. Simply keep
making a full circle. Let them fall
down. Come forward, up, and back. And
when they're going back, really open
your chest in front. So you have a full
motion of circle. And do this five
rounds in one direction and then five
rounds in the other direction. And then
another thing you can do when you're
already very tense and maybe your
mobility, your movement is limited,
simply tilt your head first to the left.
You can also give yourself a bit extra
pressure or lift your arm. You can
massage yourself. You keep doing that
five times with the right side and five
times with the left side. And then after
that you can do a full head roll from
right to left, back to front and leaving
your shoulders relaxed. You have to know
every kind of tension you have in your
body. If it's in your shoulders, in your
hips, in your jaw, in your lower body is
99% of the time because of your emotions
that are literally manifesting in our
body because they can't go out. Whenever
you're being in a tense situation in
your life, it's very important that you
either remove yourself, your body
physically from that situation or
minimum try to release the emotion in
any way and form. Sometimes I'm feeling
something. I'm feeling a lot of tension
and stress in my body and I don't know
what kind of emotion I am feeling. I
just feel stressed. I feel tense
especially when I have PMS before my
period and I feel overwhelmed and I
cannot name the emotion. I don't know
how to express it. So what I do in those
moments I go to the gym. I go for a run
even if it's only five or 10 minutes.
You have to burn those emotions if you
can't let them out. Sometimes for
whatever reason we cannot let our
emotions directly out right but it's so
important that you do not keep them in
your body because as I already said
those emotions are going to manifest in
your muscles and they create tension and
over time this tension creates really
big problems. Apart from making you feel
tired, making you feel fatigued, making
you feel stiff, making you feel
unflexible and therefore also blocking
your feminine energy. It is really,
really dangerous for your health. When I
was giving my yoga classes, I was
dealing with people who had really,
really big problems because they always
kept swallowing emotions and pushing
through, being productive, doing more.
And these habits, even though they seem
so innocent, they actually create
tension in the body. And sooner or
later, this tension shows up in lower
back pain. Lower back pain is tension of
your muscles right next to the spine.
And when it's a built up and it's
growing, it can lead to a slipped disc.
When you have a very tight neck and very
tight shoulders, it can lead to numbness
in your whole arms and a really bad
posture which ultimately will make it
difficult for you breathing. Another way
it can visibly show up in your face is
asymmetry. when it's not an asymmetry
that you have from child on. It's an
asymmetry that is created because your
muscles, your tension is distributing
unevenly through your face and you are
not supposed to live in constant
tension. So your facial features
literally change because you're living
too much in masculine energy. When you
have these lines very pronounced, then
this is a sign that you're thinking a
lot, that you are angry a lot, that you
are in tension, and you're carrying a
lot of weight by yourself. And even
though this is not something that
actually does do any harm to you, it
will create a different look in your
face. And overall, you will not have
that soft looking face, that feminine
features in your face. Apart from the
visible symptoms and visible signs, you
also have symptoms in your mind. You
keep thinking, you keep rationalizing
why you matter. You keep planning three
steps ahead because that's the only way
how you can guarantee yourself some
peace in your heart. You're replaying
conversations and situations in your
head over and over again. It's like a
constant mind chattering that never
stops. That's a symptom that your
feminine energy is blocked. It's very
difficult to live in the present moment.
When you keep living up here, when you
keep creating scenarios of the future or
can't let go of your past, another
symptom shows within your soul. It's not
visible and it's not tangible. So it's
maybe a bit difficult to understand and
see but inside here it feels like a
quiet desert. There is nothing. There is
not much to feel. There is not much
creativity. It becomes almost a core to
feel and express emotions. You don't
have access to what your soul really
wants to tell you. Now, if you have any
or many or all of those symptoms, I
don't want you to feel bad. I don't want
you to feel like you're a lost case
because you're not. I have been there
and many other women are there or have
been there. And also, I want you to know
that it's not your mistake. Many many
times you are not the reason or minimum
you are not the only reason why you are
being disconnected why your feminine
energy is blocked. So I want to talk a
bit about the main reasons of why you
have lost that connection. The first
reason can be cultural conditioning. We
are being rewarded for productivity,
logic, success, hustle. We are not being
rewarded for rest. We're actually being
shamed for resting too much, for being
soft, for going with the flow, for
feeling, for having an intuition.
Whatever career we are pursuing, we are
always being rewarded for output and
results and not for inspiration. And
even our families, they praise
performance over vulnerability.
Nobody says, "Wow, we are so proud of
you for sharing your emotions. We are so
proud that you have given us access to
your deepest feelings." No, they say,
"Wow, you have made a lot of money. Wow,
good results. Wow, great. You have the
best grade on your last exam. Wow, you
are being an Agrade students. Well
done." In a way we are being already
from very early age conditioned to block
our own feminine energy. Another reason
can be trauma and emotional suppression.
We learned in our childhood to suppress
our emotions. We learned to change who
we are and adjust and dilute our
personality and be more of this and less
of this and don't do this and do more
this. And maybe you were being dismissed
when you spoke your truth. Maybe you
were punished when you were expressing
your emotions. You were crying. You were
screaming. You were dancing. You were
playing too loud. God forbid. Maybe you
were being abused as a child. God forbid
you were beaten up when you were young.
God forbid you have been through any of
those extreme situations. But if you
have been, I feel deeply sorry. And I
want you to know that those are early
deep wounds, bigger and smaller wounds.
But it doesn't matter how big or small
they are. They are all very valid. And
these deep wounds, they lead you to
block your feminine energy because you
learned very early on to armor up, to
suppress your emotions, to suppress your
truth. because that's the only way you
learned to be safe, to be literally
physically safe. As a child, your
parents, your caretakers, they are your
main source for everything. And if they
do not do their job well, if they do not
create a space for you to feel safe, do
not create an environment for you to
feel loved and well taken care of, this
will wire your brain to adjust yourself
as a small you, to adjust your way of
thinking, to adjust your way of being in
order to be literally safe. And of
course, this stays with you. Another
main reason I want to talk about is
hyper independence and control. While
I'm always talking about independence is
good, but hyper independence is not so
good. You want to be independent just in
case. You want to have your safety net,
but you don't want to be in a position
where you are always armored up and you
feel like you don't want help because
help doesn't feel safe. Being
hyperindependent and being always in
control is blocking your feminine
energy. It literally suffocates flow,
trust and softness. How can you flow
with life? How can you trust what's
happening tomorrow when you in your head
you need to control every single step?
You need to plan every single step and
every single thing. You can't flow. You
simply can't. How can you flow and be
intuitive when you're living up here and
you're being in control of what's
happening? And whenever you're not being
in control, you feel like you're losing
grip of your life. And feminine energy
is connected to flow, intuition,
softness, presence. You are constantly
living in your head. When you're
constantly thinking about tomorrow, next
week, and next month, always remember
that the most magical things happen when
they're unexpected, unplanned,
uncontrolled. I want you to trust. Sit
back and let go of that control. Let go
of that hyperindependence.
Let people help you. Keep in mind that
the universe, God, life is planning and
is creating your life while you are
being too busy making a plan that will
never turn out that way. Because there
is always a higher plan. There is always
something you will not be in control of.
Why do you want to waste your time, your
present moment, with thinking about
something you're literally not in
control? This control that you think you
have is just an illusion. You are never
in control of what happens tomorrow. You
are never in control of what another
person is doing. You are never in
control of what happens in one year or
in two years or in one month. When
things happen the way you planned them
to, that's great. That's a coincidence.
But many times, and I can bet with you,
99% of the time, your plants don't turn
out the way you plant them. Last year,
last year, exactly one year ago, I had
nowhere to stay. I had no place to live.
I had two cats to take care of. And I
didn't know where I am landing tomorrow.
Even though I planned everything, I was
always in charge. I was trying to plan
and to grip everything, but things
happened differently. Sometimes, many
times, almost always, things happen
unexpectedly.
And even though this seemed like the
worst thing in my life because I had
planned differently and I ended up in
that place, it was the best thing that
ever happened to me. You have to let the
unexpected things happen and trust that
whatever is coming is going to be for
your best version, for your highest
self. Another reason I just want to
quickly touch on is seeking external
validation. This will always block your
feminine energy, block your radiance and
completely ruins your inner confidence
and also authenticity. I want you to
check out my last video because I talked
a lot about seeking validation and how
you can validate yourself instead and at
the same time grow your self-esteem.
Next topic I want to cut on how you
learn to shut down your feelings.
Shutting down your feelings is nothing
else than a defense mechanism. You
learned that being vulnerable showing
your emotions invites pain. You want to
protect yourself from pain. Pain is
uncomfortable. Pain is dangerous. So,
you started to build walls. You said
fine when you were feeling sad. You
started to smile when you're being
exhausted. While your inner self was
screaming and asking and begging you to
slow down, to listen to your feelings,
to be sad, to show your emotions. That
defense mechanism may have served you
when you were younger. when this
mechanism literally kept you safe
physically. But right now, it is not
that important anymore. It's actually
hindering you from living in your flow,
from living in your softness, from
living your true self. Now this
mechanism, this defense mechanism shows
also up in having trust issues, having
it difficult to receive, feeling the
need to constantly overexlain,
feeling the need to control everything.
All of these traits and habits are
nothing else than a defense mechanism
that once in your life made you feel
safe, made you actually be safe, made
you survive. But it's not that needed
right now. And even though this is a big
part of yourself right now and it seems
like something that you continuously
keep doing without even knowing, it's
not something that you can't change. You
can consciously decide to trust more.
You can consciously decide to trust a
person. Give it a try. You don't need to
change your everything, your whole
essence within a day. But you can
consciously decide to change by small
steps, to change little things every
single day. And there is no wrong or
right way to do it. But in general, if
you keep neglecting and dismissing your
own emotions, keep listening to them.
Keep talking to yourself. Keep embracing
them. Keep expressing them. Even though
it's difficult, I for such a long time,
I always talk about this had
difficulties to express my anger, to
express certain emotions, my sadness.
But at the end of the day, it's one
conscious decision. It's one promise
that you have to keep making to
yourself. From today on, for example,
every time you feel sad and you feel how
you're swallowing down your tears, you
say no to yourself. You step back. You
go to a place where you feel safe to
express your emotions. You don't have to
do it in front of everyone, but you have
to give yourself permission to feel your
emotions. The same goes with trust
issues. You have to give yourself the
permission to trust. Even though it's
difficult for you. It was difficult for
me to trust men forever. It still is.
But day by day, I'm learning. Day by
day, I'm expressing my truth. For
example, you have a boyfriend. You have
issues to trust him even though he
doesn't give you any reasons to distrust
him. What you can do is first of all
tell him, "Babe, I'm really having trust
issues. I'm having it so difficult to
trust you. It would help me if I can go
through your phone. It would help me if
you can reassure me that you love me. It
would help me if you can reassure me
that there is nothing I have to worry
about." And when you do this, first of
all, you're expressing your emotions.
You're expressing your truth. You're
giving the other person, your partner
the opportunity
to do, to calm, to soo you. And then
it's your responsibility to trust that.
At the end of the day, you can only have
trust issues if you have it in here. If
you're not trusting your partner, if
you're not trusting anyone around you,
you're not trusting yourself. And that's
where it starts. How can you start to
trust yourself? Ask yourself, how can I
start to trust myself? Do I truly trust
myself? When you're always attracting
partner that you literally can't trust,
you can only change that by starting to
trust yourself to choose the right
partner. When you don't do that, you're
always giving the signs to the other
person that this other person needs to
prove you. In a certain extent, yes,
everyone needs to prove that they are
trustworthy. I believe that too. But at
some point when a person prove to you,
hey, I'm trustworthy, you need to let go
of that and trust yourself that your
intuition, your gut, you yourself, your
decisions, you trust that you make the
right decisions. And even though
sometimes your decision might hurt you,
your decision might leave you the wrong
way. Your decision might lead you a way
that doesn't go straight, that goes
down, up, right, left. Trust yourself
even then and tell yourself even though
things are going right or left, it's
part of the journey. Even though I lost
a partner, even though I trusted the
wrong person, I forgive myself because
it's part of my journey. What is this
mirroring me? It's mirroring me that I
need to trust myself more. The same goes
with overexlaining. Why do you keep
overexlaining yourself? Maybe you want
to control the other person's mind. You
want to control the outcome. You can
choose consciously to say, "I am not
overexplaining myself." Even though you
will do it still once or twice, but
every time you catch yourself doing it,
you stop and you say, "Hey, wait a
second. I don't need to explain myself.
I don't need to explain my feelings. I
express my truth. Other people will
understand it if they want to. If they
want to know more, they will ask more. I
don't need to give and express and say
everything and even more than necessary.
And very often it is that we keep
overexlaining ourselves because deep
down we feel unworthy. We feel like we
need to convince the other person to see
the worth we consciously know we have
but unconsciously we don't know that we
have. As my social media is growing and
especially my Instagram is having
millions of views, I recently caught
myself getting really annoyed because I
know I am not making the amount of money
that I should make. I see other creators
having way less engagement than me, way
less views, comments, followers, and
getting really big collaborations,
getting really big partnerships. I'm
thinking, why do they not see my worth?
It makes me really angry because I know
my worth. I know that I should be asking
way more than what I'm getting for a
collaboration right now. I know I should
be getting way more collaborations and
should be making way more money with
what I have. I know that my content is
very valuable, that what I am doing is
very important. Then yesterday night, I
realized that what I am experiencing
right now is a mirror of my past
beliefs. My beliefs that maybe deep down
are still a little bit there. And even
though now I know my worth, I know that
I am valuable as a person, that my
energy is valuable with zero effort and
with 100 effort. Even though I know that
right now, a few months ago, I didn't
know that. And this is a subconscious
belief that is so deeply in there that
will show up in my life. It's like an
echo. And it takes time to change that.
So you have to give yourself some grace.
You have to give yourself the time, the
peace, the presence with yourself and
the patience that things are not
changing within a month. Things are not
changing within a week. You can change
from one day to the other. Yes. But your
outer circumstances, your outer
experience in this world is just a
reflection of your past beliefs, of your
past experiences, of your past actions.
You need to let that echo echo out. And
the same goes with control. So many
habits, so many traits, so many things
you do on a day-to-day basis that is
blocking your feminine energy is coming
from control. You want to control your
emotions. You want to control outcomes.
You want to control the future. So the
easiest thing to do is to stop
controlling. You have to consciously
decide again, I am not controlling
anymore. I let go of control. I let go
of the need to know everything. I let go
and I trust because control is the exact
opposite of trusting. Trusting is a
feminine trait. Controlling is a
masculine trait. In fact, it's a wounded
masculine trait. You have to consciously
decide to want different for yourself.
There is nothing specific I can tell you
to do like dance in the rain, do your
hair, do your makeup. Yes, these are
traits on the surface. I talked about
those traits in many of my other videos,
habits that make you more feminine. But
this is on the surface. And this video
here is about why you are blocking your
femininity. Because I want you to
understand why you're doing that. I want
you to understand that actually
everything you do on the surface is for
vain. When you are not deciding
consciously to want different for
yourself, you need to decide
consciously. I don't want to control
everything anymore. I am trusting from
now. I am having faith and belief in
myself. Trusting my own words. I am
trusting my own decisions. I am letting
go of pain. I am letting go of every
habit, of every trait that doesn't serve
me. I want you to say it out loud. Pain
is not mine to hold. Judgment is not
mine to own. The past does not define
me. I am love. I am forgiveness. I am
overcoming. No more dwelling on what
doesn't serve me. Now, as promised, I
want to end this video with giving you a
little road map of how you can unblock
your feminine energy. First of all, your
breakthrough is that you realize your
feminine energy is not gone and was
never gone. You were just blocking it.
And you can remove those walls. You can
unblock it. Remove the stones that are
in your way and let it flow. Understand
also that those blocks, those walls,
those stones that are blocking your
feminine energy are also called logic,
control, armor, and obligations. And
then, as already mentioned throughout
the video, start small. And notice
whenever you do, cry when you feel sad.
Accept a compliment, accept a gift,
accept help without deflecting it. Just
say thank you. I appreciate it. And this
sounds for some of you maybe so easy and
simple, but I have been there and it was
so difficult for me. So I know it's not
as easy as it sounds, but all starts
with your conscious decision. What also
can help is to journal those moments.
Write them down. Sit down every night
and write down what you're grateful for
and also in which moment you actually
embraced your feminine energy. Write
down, I felt sad and I cried. I received
help without deflecting it. I received a
compliment and I said thank you even
though I didn't feel like it. Write down
everything you have in your head because
if you write it down, you release it
from your head. You start to live more
present and also you notice those things
more. It's like a double confirmation.
Your brain actually doesn't know what
you are experiencing right now or what
you're experiencing only here. So if you
keep reexperience those good moments,
even if it's just on paper, it's like a
fast track to rewiring your brain that
create new neural pathways. And those
will eventually create your new normal.
Attention rewires those pathways. The
more you notice and value those feminine
moments, the more your brain will allow
them and see them as part of you, as
something that's normal. And then keep
practicing it. And say more I feel
instead of I think. Your words are
creating your reality. The more you say
I think, the more you will be stuck up
here, the more you say I feel, the more
you keep listening to your heart and
living from your heart. And when you
keep doing all of these things, it will
create a ripple effect in your life for
yourself and others. I have not talked a
lot about other people being the reason
or the main source why your feminine
energy is blocked because at the end of
the day you are only in power of what
you do and of yourself what you think
and what you choose. You're not in power
what other people are doing. And when
you notice you feel tense around someone
when you notice this person doesn't do
me any good. You don't need my
confirmation for that. You don't need a
list from me that tells you if a person
is dismissing you constantly. If a
person doesn't create a safe space for
you to feel your emotion, if a person is
blaming you for everything that is
happening in their life and so on, you
don't need my confirmation because deep
down you know that already. You know
that this person is not creating a safe
space for you. You know that this person
is not helping you to express your
feminine energy, is not making you
unblock your feminine energy. And even
though other people can be a source, can
be a reason for you to block your
feminine energy, but it's always you who
is responsible for changing. You need to
change and rise for others to either
rise with you or they will automatically
fall away from you. You have to imagine
that like a business. Let's say you have
a business. You're just starting out
right now. You're starting with small
prices. You're attracting a specific
clientele. As soon as your business
rise, the demand rises, you invest more
energy, you invest more money, you
invest more time, you invest more
resources, you change from polyester to
silk materials, the value of your
business is rising.
Now, your old clientele that was here
that maybe has a certain type of income
can now either decide to make more money
in order to still afford your clothes
from your business or they automatically
will fall away and you will attract a
new clientele. You will attract a new
sort of people with a new type of income
and those people are happily investing
in the pieces you sell. They see the
value in it and they have the resources.
What I want to tell you with that you're
responsible to rise in your life. And I
know many of you are scared that you
will rise and the other person that is
blocking your feminine energy right now
is not rising with you. Yeah, that can
happen. But do not be worried because
why do you want to have a person in your
life that is not willing to rise for
you? you don't want to be with a person
that is here when you're up here. You
can either decide to come back down here
or you can decide to stay up here, sell
your expensive pieces. You don't need to
tell that clientele that they have to go
now somewhere else. You don't need to do
anything. You will be so busy with
nurturing your business at this level
that you will not even have time to
waste on the clientele down here. Don't
be worried about leaving people behind
because people that want to stay here,
they will happily find someone else that
wants to stay here. They are not happy
with you anyways. You are not for people
who want to stay here. You're demanding
from people around you to be the best
version of themselves. You want to get
the most out of the people. Not everyone
is here on earth
wanting to get the most out of it. Some
people are happy with a basic life. They
don't want to dive deep. They don't want
to explore what else life has to offer.
But you're here to fully dive deep. You
want to express who you are. You don't
want to miss out on anything. You want
to be the fullest and best version of
yourself. Otherwise, you wouldn't watch
this video. Anyways, guys, I hope this
could help. I hope you can take a lot
from this video. I want you to be
authentic to yourself. And as a woman,
we are being so blessed with feminine
energy. It would be a pity if you would
leave this life without having expressed
your true self. Thank you so so much for
watching. I love you so much and I see
you in my next video. Bye-bye.